Mithril update 2026-04-22 (#767)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2026-04-22-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2026-04-22-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

This week, the Mithril team completed the preparation of production readiness for circuit keys and trusted setup in the STM library. They continued work on the golden tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype, the enhancement of witness preparation for the non-recursive prover, deterministic proof generation in golden tests, and data encoding and state transition tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype.

The team also completed the explorer update for Cardano blocks and transactions, the documentation of the Cardano blocks and transactions signature on the website, and the plan to sunset the Cardano transaction certification. Additionally, they continued work on the upgrade to Cardano `10.7` and on the next distribution `2617` preparation.

> Finally, they investigated some issue with the signer registration in the SNARK prover, fixed flaky end to end tests, and worked on supporting multiple tiers for tests in CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team completed production readiness preparations for circuit keys and trusted setup in the STM library. They continued work on the golden tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype, enhancements to witness preparation for the non-recursive prover, deterministic proof generation in golden tests, and data encoding and state transition tests for the recursive SNARK circuit prototype.

The team also completed the explorer update for Cardano blocks and transactions, the documentation of the Cardano blocks and transactions signature on the website, and the plan to sunset Cardano transaction certification. They continued work on the upgrade to Cardano node v.10.7 and on the preparation of the next distribution, `2617`.

Finally, they investigated an issue with signer registration in the SNARK prover, fixed flaky end-to-end tests, and worked on supporting multiple tiers for CI tests.
```
